.nr N -1
.nr D 5
.TH W3M 1 "2016-08-06" "w3m 0.5.3"
.SH NAME
w3m \- a text based web browser and pager
.SH SYNOPSIS
w3m [OPTION]... [ \fIfile\fP | \fIURL\fP ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" This defines appropriate quote strings for nroff and troff
.ds lq \&"
.ds rq \&"
.if t .ds lq ``
.if t .ds rq ''
.\" Just in case these number registers aren't set yet...
.if \nN==0 .nr N 10
.if \nD==0 .nr D 5

\fIw3m\fP is a text based browser which can display local or remote
web pages as well as other documents.
It is able to process HTML
tables and frames but it ignores JavaScript and Cascading Style
Sheets.
\fIw3m\fP can also serve as a pager for text files named as
arguments or passed on standard input, and as a general purpose
directory browser.

\fIw3m\fP organizes its content in buffers or tabs, allowing easy
navigation between them.
With the w3m-img extension installed, \fIw3m\fP can
display inline graphics in web pages.
And whenever \fIw3m\fP's HTML
rendering capabilities do not meet your needs, the target URL can be
handed over to a graphical browser with a single command.

For help with runtime options, press \(lqH\(rq while running \fIw3m\fP.

.SH ARGUMENTS

When given one or more command line arguments, \fIw3m\fP will handle
targets according to content type.
For web, \fIw3m\fP gets this
information from HTTP headers; for relative or absolute file system
paths, it relies on filenames.

With no argument, \fIw3m\fP expects data from standard input and
assumes \(lqtext/plain\(rq unless another MIME type is given by the user.

If provided with no target and no fallback target (see for instance
option \fB\-v\fP below), \fIw3m\fP will exit with usage information.
.SH OPTIONS
Command line options are introduced with a single \(lq\-\(rq character and
may take an argument.
.SS General options
.TP
\fB\-B\fP
with no other target defined, use the bookmark page for startup
.TP
\fB\-H\fP
use high-intensity colors
.TP
\fB\-M\fP
monochrome display
.TP
\fB\-no-mouse\fP
deactivate mouse support
.TP
\fB\-num\fP
display each line's number
.TP
\fB\-N\fP
distribute multiple command line arguments to tabs.
By default, a
stack of buffers is used
.TP
\fB\-ppc \fInum\fR
width of \fInum\fR pixels per character.
Range of 4.0 to 32.0, default 8.0.
Larger values will make tables narrower.
(Implementation not verified)
.TP
\fB\-ppl \fInum\fR
height of \fInum\fR pixels per line.
Range of 4.0 to 64.0.
(Implementation not verified)
.TP
\fB\-title\fP, \fB\-title=TERM\fP
use the buffer name as terminal title string.
With specified TERM,
this sets the title configuration style accordingly
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
with no other target defined, welcome users with a built-in page
.TP
\fB\-W\fP
toggle wrapping mode in searches
.TP
\fB\-X\fP
do not initialize/deinitialize the terminal
.TP
\fB+\fInum\fR
go to line \fInum\fR;
only effective for \fInum\fR larger than the number of lines in the terminal
.SS Browser options
.TP
\fB\-cols \fInum\fR
with stdout as destination; HTML is rendered to lines of \fInum\fR characters
.TP
\fB\-cookie\fP, \fB\-no-cookie\fP
use stored cookies and accept new ones, or do neither
.TP
\fB\-F\fP
render frames
.TP
\fB\-graph\fP, \fB\-no-graph\fP
use or do not use graphic characters for drawing HTML table and frame borders
.TP
\fB\-header \fIstring\fR
append \fIstring\fR to the HTTP(S) request.
Expected to match the header syntax \f(CWVariable: Value\fP
.TP
\fB\-m\fP
Render the body of Usenet messages according to the header \(lqContent-type\(rq
.TP
\fB\-no-proxy\fP
do not use proxy
.TP
\fB\-post \fIfile\fR
use POST method to upload data defined in \fIfile\fR.
The syntax to be used
is \f(CWvar1=value1[&var2=value2]...\fP
.TP
\fB\-4\fP
IPv4 only.
Corresponds to dns_order=4 in configuration files
.TP
\fB\-6\fP
IPv6 only.
Corresponds to dns_order=6 in configuration files
.TP
\fB\-insecure\fP
use insecure SSL config options,
alias for \f(CW-o ssl_cipher=ALL:eNULL:@SECLEVEL=0 -o ssl_min_version=all
-o ssl_forbid_method= -o ssl_verify_server=0\fP
.SS Text pager options
.TP
\fB\-l \fInum\fR
number of lines preserved internally when receiving plain text from
stdin (default 10,000)
.TP
\fB\-r\fP
use caret notation to display special escape characters (such
as ANSI escapes or nroff-style backspaces for bold and underlined
characters) instead of processing them
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
squeeze multiple blank lines into one
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fInum\fP
set tab width to \fInum\fR columns.
No effect on stdout
.SS Data type/encoding options
.TP
\fB\-I \fIcharset\fR
user defined character encoding of input data
.TP
\fB\-O \fIcharset\fR
user defined character encoding of output data
.TP
\fB\-T \fItype\fR
explicit characterization of input data by MIME type
.SS Options for data output, followed by immediate exit
.TP
\fB\-dump\fP
dump rendered page into stdout.
Set implicitly when output is directed
to a file or pipe
.TP
\fB\-dump_source\fP
dump the page's source code into stdout
.TP
\fB\-dump_head\fP
dump response of a HEAD request for a URL into stdout
.TP
\fB\-dump_both\fP
dump HEAD, and source code for a URL into stdout
.TP
\fB\-dump_extra\fP
dump HEAD, source code, and extra information for a URL into stdout
.TP
\fB\-help\fP
show a summary of compiled-in features and command line options
.TP
\fB\-show-option\fP
show all available configuration options
.TP
\fB\-version\fP
show the version of \fIw3m\fP
.SS Options for overriding default settings and resources
.TP
\fB\-bookmark \fIfile\fR
use \fIfile\fR instead of the default bookmark.html file
.TP
\fB\-config \fIfile\fR
use \fIfile\fR instead of the default configuration file
.TP
\fB\-o \fIoption=value\fR
modify one configuration item with an explicitly given value;
without \fIoption=value\fR, equivalent to \fB\-show-option\fR
.TP
\fB\-debug\fP
use debug mode (only for debugging)
.TP
\fB\-reqlog\fP
log headers of HTTP communication in file \f(CW~/.w3m/request.log\fP
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Pager-like usage
.TP
Combine snippets of HTML code and preview the page
.EX
$ cat header.html footer.html | w3m \-T text/html
.EE
.TP
Compare two files using tabs
.EX
$ w3m \-N config.old config
.EE
.SS Browser-like usage
.TP
Display web content in monochrome terminal
.EX
$ w3m \-M http://w3m.sourceforge.net
.EE
.TP
Display embedded graphics
.EX
$ w3m \-o auto_image=TRUE http://w3m.sourceforge.net
.EE
.TP
Display content from Usenet
.EX
$ w3m \-m nntp://news.aioe.org/comp.os.linux.networking
.EE
.TP
Upload data for a URL using the POST method
.EX
$ w3m \-post \- http://example.com/form.php <<<'a=0&b=1'
.EE
.SS Filter-like usage
.TP
Convert an HTML file to plain text with a defined line length
.EX
$ w3m \-cols 40 foo.html > foo.txt
.EE
.TP
Output the bookmarks page as text with an appended list of links
.EX
$ w3m \-B \-o display_link_number=1 > out.txt
.EE
.TP
Conversion of file format and character encoding
.EX
$ w3m \-T text/html \-I EUC-JP \-O UTF-8 < foo.html > foo.txt
.EE
.SS Start with no input
.TP
Welcome users with a built-in page
.EX
$ w3m \-v
.EE
.\".SH Errors
.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fIw3m\fP recognises the environment variable \fBWWW_HOME\fP as
defining a fallback target for use if it is invoked without one.

If the \fBW3M_DIR\fP environment variable is set to a directory
name, \fIw3m\fP will store its user files there instead of
under the ~/.w3m directory.
.SH FILES
The default locations of some files are listed below. These
locations can be altered via the \fBW3M_DIR\fP environment
variable.
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/bookmark.html\fP
default bookmark file
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/config\fP
user defined configuration file; overrides \f(CW/etc/w3m/config\fP
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/cookie\fP
cookie jar; written on exit, read on launch
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/history\fP
browser history - visited files and URLs
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/keymap\fP
user defined key bindings; overrides default key bindings
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/mailcap\fP
external viewer configuration file
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/menu\fP
user defined menu; overrides default menu
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/mime.types\fP
MIME types file
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/mouse\fP
user defined mouse settings
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/passwd\fP
password and username file
.TP
\f(CW~/.w3m/pre_form\fP
contains predefined values to fill recurrent HTML forms
.\" .TP
.\" .I $~/.w3m/urimethodmap
.\" ???
.SH SEE ALSO
README and example files are to be found in the doc directory of your
\fIw3m\fP installation.
Recent information about \fIw3m\fP may be found on
.UR http://w3m.sourceforge.net
the project's web pages at
.UE
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
\fIw3m\fP has incorporated code from several sources.
Users have contributed patches and suggestions over time.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT aito@fw.ipsj.or.jp
Akinori ITO
.ME

